# Object Oriented Programming
## Defination & Theory
**Class:** A class is a template definition of the methods and variables in a particular kind of object.

**Function Overloading:** It is the process of using the same name for two or more functions.

**Object:** An object can be defined as a data field that has unique attributes and behavior.

**Encapsulation:** Encapsulation is the mechanism that binds together code and the data it manipulates and keeps both safe from outside interference and misuse.

**Polymorphism:** Polymorphism is the attribute that allows one interface to control access to a general class of actions.

**Inheritance:** Inheritance is the process by which one object can acquire the properties of anouther object.

```
class derived-class-name : access base-class-name{
    // body of the class
};
```
When the base is inherited by using the **private** access specifier, all **public** and **protected** members of the base class become **private** members of the dirved class.

If we inherit a base class as **protected**. then all **public** and **protected** members of the base class become **protected** members if the dirved class.

If we specify a base class as **public** in a class. then all **protected** members of the base class become **public** members if the dirved class.
*see example in the code (15.01 , 15.02 , 15.03)*

**15.06 passPrmBaseConstrutors.cpp**  
passing parameters to base-class Constructors.. just look at the code how cool this is. :D

**Virtual Base classes:** when multiple base classes are inherited. then ambiguity occure. To reduce it we can use virtual base class. **see 15.08 code**

**Virtual Function:** A virtual function is a member function that is decleared within a base class and redifined by a derived class. The virtual function within the base class defines the form of the interface to that function. Each redefination of the virtual function by a derived class implements its operation as it relates specifically to the derived class. The redefination creates a specific method. **See code 16. Virtual Function.cpp**

**NB:** constructor function cannot be virtual but destructor function can.

**A pure Virtual Function:** A pure virtual function is a virtual function that has no definition within the base class.
```
virtual type func-name(parameter-list) = 0;
```
**See code 16.02 pure virtual function.cpp**

**Abstract classes:** A class that contains at least one pure virtual function is said to be abstract. you cannot create objects of an abstract class, you can create pointers and references to an abstract class. This allows abstract classes to support **run-time polymorphism**. 
Just look at the 16.03 Virtual Function exercise code. how cool the concept is. I am really surprised.

**Constructor:** A constructor is a special funciton that is a **member of a class** and has the same name as that class.
- Constructors will not output or input anything.
- It is automatically called when the object is created.

**Friend Function:** A friend function has access to all private and protected members of the class for which it is a friend. To declear a friend function, include its prototype within the class, preceding it with the keyword friend.

**Friend Classes:** It is possible for one class to be a friend of another class. When this is the case, the friend class and all of its member funcitons have access to the private members defined with in the other calss.

**Inline Function:** Inline can produce faster runtime. 
Each time a function is called, a significant amount of overhead is generated by the calling and return mechanism. Typically, arguments are pushed onto the stack and various registers are saved when a function is called. it take so much time. but by using inline none of those operations occur. 
inline is actually request to the compiler to specify the register for the function.

**Note:** It's best to use inline in very small functions.

**Parameterized Constructors:** It is possible to initialize the object when it is created by using parameterized constructors.

**Operator Function:** 
```
    return-type class-name::operator# (argument list){
        // operations...
        return return-type
    }
```

Here left side parameter is passed implicitly to the function through the this pointer.
and the right side operand is passed as parameter

**Operator Overloading code:**
```
loc operator+(loc ob, int val){
    loc tem;
    tem.longitude = ob.longitude + val;
    tem.latitude = ob.latitude+val;
    return tem;
}

loc operator+(int val , loc ob){
    loc tem;
    tem.longitude = ob.longitude + val;
    tem.latitude = ob.latitude+val;
    return tem;
}
```

**Static Data Members:** static means, when we declear a variable with **static** we are just telling the compiler that only one copy of that variable will exist and that all objects of the class will share that variable.
**Static Member Function:**

**Nested Classes:**

**Passing Object to Functions:** when an objcet is passing to a function, a copy of that object is made. This means that a new object comes into existence. When the function is terminates, the copy of the argument is destroyed. As its passing the copy object thats why its not creating the constructor again when we pass object in a function.


**Benefits of OOP**
* Better code reusability using objects and inheritance.
* Principle of data hiding helps build secure systems.
* Multiple objects can co-exist without any interference.
* software complexity can be easily managed.

**Why class is better then structure.**
every thing is same. But the only diffrence is that by default all members are **public in struc** and **privete in class**.

**Unions and Class are related**


## Basic Knowledge
A class contain private and public parts. By default, all items defined in a class are **private**.
In scope resolution operator **::** links a class name with a member name in order to tell the compler what class the member belongs to.
        ```
        int i;
        main(){
            int i;
            ::i = 10 // refers to global i
        }
        ```
**Run Time Polimorphism:**

## Interview Question about OOP